Github 101

Anna Wiener, Github's terms of service support team
Jordan McCullough, 

Version control, follow changes over time

Platform for collaborating on code.

Repository - where you put your files. Like a folder.

Asynchronous, transparent, everyone stays on the same page.

A repository are logical units. Don't put totally different things in the same repository.

Check Include a ReadMe. Info on the repo. 

Markdown github format

Produce stories faster.
Editors, copy-editors, fact-checkers, production teams can work in tandem (and in different time zones).

Transparency - see the stories and ideas your colleagues are developing

Decentralized newsroom allows for greater insight across teams

FiveThirtyEight has a data repo for each story they write

NPR multimedia story Life After Death - St Louis Radio took their code and made One Year in Ferguson

OpenFuego by Nieman Lab - a bot that curates and ranks the story your network is talking about

government.github.com

Learn: guides.github.com

Issues: Comments from others on the repo

When you commit - the first line is the main commit message, what did you change?

Commit change. It shows up.

Change of mindset. Show early drafts to colleagues.

Emojis. :coffee: makes a cup of coffee!

second part of commit "closes #1" -> no more issues

@ mentions notifies ppl by email

Give other users access to yr github.com repository.

Settings - Collaborators

Forks: anyone can copy this content. The copy ends up in your individual account.
You can author the content to her, but she doesn't have to accept it.
Offer changes up, change by change.

Pull requests. A set of changes I want to address to my colleagues. Take all the docs, edit and upload.

A change that's more of a suggestion can be branched. Choose "Create a new branch for this commit" when you commit. Name the branch. Like a bucket for all these changes.

Assign someone to the branch - it can be yrself.

Pull requests are stronger suggestions than issues.

To incorporate the brance, click Merge pull request.











